When change over time is not linear 
39 
are systematic deviations of the observed data from the model fits, that sug-gests that the functional form may not be adequate. •It is sometimes easier to see such systematic deviations by plotting the residual error (i.e., deviation) against the model-predicted (fitted) values. This kind of plot shows what was missed by the model. For example, the right panel of Figure 3.1 shows this kind of plot for the worst and best models from the left panel. The residual errors from the linear model (open circles) start out negative, progressively become positive, then drop into the negatives again, which reflects the fact that the linear model missed the U-shape in the data. The residual errors from the non-linear model (filled circles) are not just closer to 0, they are also unsystematic — sometimes a little above 0, sometimes a little below, without any clear pattern. Systematic deviations can be more formally described in terms of autocorrelated residuals, which can be used to quantitatively assess whether a model is inadequate. 
3.2.2 Dynamic consistency When dealing with multilevel or nested data, we want the model to describe the overall average pattern as well as the individual participants' deviation from that average. Since the overall average pattern is the average of the individual participants, we want it to be true that if you fit the model to each participant's data individually and average together those parameter estimates, you would get the same values as if you had averaged together the data from all of the participants and fit the model to that average. This property is called dynamic consistency: the model of the average data is equal to the average of the models of individual participants' data. Higher-order polynomials comprise one family of functions with this prop-erty. The term higher-order polynomials refers to polynomial functions of order greater than 1: for example, Time2, Time3, Time4, etc. (the order or degree of a polynomial function is the value of the largest power or expo-nent in the function). These shapes are shown in Figure 3.2, where each panel shows the shape of a single polynomial time term. A growth curve model using higher-order polynomials would include multiple polynomial terms. For exam-ple, a second-order polynomial Level 1 model would have three 3 parameters: (3.1YZJ) -= 130i •+ 131i Timed + 132i • Time + which correspond to the three time terms: the intercept G30i), the linear slope (OH), and the steepness of the quadratic curvature P2i). The Level 2 models of those parameters could then include condition (or other) effects On any or al 1 of those Level 1 parameters, just as described in the previous chapter. As shown in Figure 3.2, polynomial functions capture non-linear change over time but if we consider Time2 , Time3, etc., to be different predictors, then the model is just like a standard multiple linear regression model with (11fferent parameters for different predictors. In other words, polynomial func-tions are non-linear in their variables (i.e., Time), but linear in their param-
