Growth Corr( (111d 1),s11:11 1- (1?„t from one circles in Figure av,.1;we ot' of the conditions in Ili., experinicni ;Ind bkirk Lpf, model tit to those .1"111, 1 1'1' hincl it)11 "H'ilYze this sort 
of fixation time &Ito set, 10.11".. (C" 2()()) clearly (1;tt:, vci■ The ',""' 3.3 "") models ;;4, 1,;)111,ii,;w1,) ;slid thr,s,, of data from individwIl p;111 icipa also the indivi(hill dal a vcry 11.)wcycl \\Awl' I ho pal  111(.1 resulting model ohshc(1 !hie) was sill)st iaily 114)11) hot the rn(),,,,i Ott did not reflect 
the central tendency of he individual wirticiwrit lines), which is most obvious in the later half of the time cour=4,, dashed line is above all of the grey lines; that is, the average 
of the indi models is higher than any of the individual models. modrAs arid This mismatch between the central tendency of the inditdvAsiuedmauutsaseellTeshts:Fthie.ir jex: )1ggest the 
average of the individual models poses quite serious pro) one is that it makes standard inferential statistical meth/ ons m the pxper_ ample. one might want to use a paired-samples t-test to 
evaluate thF, a (amplitude) parameter was different between two conditions iment. The problem is that this test would be using the individual partici_ pants a parameters to evaluate whether 
the means for the two condition, were different. but those means would no longer reflect a model of the actual, fixation data (i.e., those means would represent the dashed line in 
Figure 3,1 which reflects neither the average data nor the individual models). Even one used other. more sophisticated model or parameter evaluation techniques. they would necessarily be 
based on estimating means and variances from indi vidual observations, but those means and variances are linear properties and the dynamically inconsistent LPP functional form has only 
non-linear proper-ties. (For another discussion of the problems that arise when the model of the average does not reflect the individual data see Brown & Heathcote. 9003.' A corollary of this problem is that lack of dynamic consistency makes .a7- kind of individual differences analysis uninterpretable. For example, one nilF. want to test a correlation between individual participants' c-1: parameters scores on some other cognitive test. But again, there is the problem that the average of the individual parameters does not reflect the central tendencY of the individual models. In other words, it would mean running correlation using a non-linear variable. Even worse, the particular non-linegir,! of the variable is very opaque, so it is hard to know what kind Of artifacts g will introduce into the correlation analysis. Finally, recall from Chapt 2 that in a __1101. the random effect param er a multilevel regression frano etels are constrained to be drawn from distribution with a mean of 0. That is -H. a (random effects) from the overall mean vel age of in 01- average of the ind• the 1N f • - d. dual models is equal to the model of the a“ (fixed effects) is O. Which is to a nor.01, 
