58 Growth Curve Analysis and Visualization Using R principle extends to statistical i,nalysis methods as well: .provide enough in-- be n.ble to replicate your analysis. formation that 
another researcher vvoi Common analysis methods like f-tests ANOVAs are so standardized that it can be enough to simply Wilt illy the method. More sophisticated methods possible yariations, so 
it i.s important like growth curve analysis have many to provide all of the key (let ails or illy nnalysis werhod and results. There ar,, three general categories cal ink)rinat ion that 
need to Inc, included: general. analysis frarrys!wayortk,h:17y. (1-) 1. The model structure. The some It is importva applied in maw different ways, so it is not enough to 
used "multilevel modeling" 01' "growth curve.analysis." to clearly describe the functional form, all of the .fixed effects, and t}-1F, random effects structure. 

The basis for the inferential statistics. Readers need to know how you made inferences about your model. 
That is, what method you used for significance testing. For model comparisons, make sure 
to clearly describe the models that were compared. For parameter-specific p-values report that the normal approximation was used. 3. Complete model results, not just p-values. 

For model comparisons. report the change in log-likelihood and the degrees of freedom thf, y2 test). For parameter estimates, report the estimates and their stan_ dard errors the t-values are 
optional because they are just the estimates divided by standard errors). It may also be a good idea to include information about the software used to do the analysis. 
Here is an example of how these pieces might be combined for the word learning example from section 3.4: Growth curve analysis (Mirman, 2014) was used to analyze the learning of the novel 
words over the course of 10 training blocks. The overall learning curves were modeled with second-order or-thogonal polynomials and fixed effects of TP on all time terms. 
The low TP condition was treated as the baselineand parameters were estimated for the high TP condition. The model also included random effects of participants on all time terms. 
The fixed effects ofTP were added individually and their effects on model fit were evaluated using model comparisons. Improvements in model fit were evaluated using -2 times the change in to 
likelihood, which is distributed as X2 with degrees of of parameters added. freedom equal to the number 3.0.2 using the lme4paceAll an were carried out in R version ge (version 1.0-5). 
The effect of TP on (x2(1) 1.55,p 0.2 the intercept did not improve improve model fit (x2(1) — ___ 5.95. = 0 47) model fit qua.odiratic, term (x2(1) 0.358„ 13), nor did the effect of 
TP on the linear term, ,p 0.55). The effect of TP on the however did • 
