46 Growth Curvc Analysis and Visualization Using R polynomials outweigh their neg-implementational properi is or higher-Ord(' ative properties, but it is import alit to reuwiliber •t hatul::rAiyersuo)rfntia,hlef::tn)scetrivoends may be good at describing the pat terns wit hill bow data and should not he used to make predict iotr-, wha,t will happen outside those boundaries. 
3.3.2 Choosing polynomial 
Usint; hiOler-order polynomink requires choosing, Hie specific order of tfli 1,!-; ,q,uadratic function sufficient or polynomial to he used lor e;lch analysis. general guideline it cr doe,: it need to be cuhic, or (-wok, etc.( As a n, , times the curve changes helpful to think about, the data, in terins Of how many direction (more formally, this corresponds to the number of inflection point8). flat line has zero changes of direction, so that could be modeled with a zero-order polynomial (just the intercept: ,30). A straight, non-flat line, ha: an initial change of direction from flatness, so that could he modeled with a first-order polynomial po +filTime). A U-shaped curve has the initial changF. from flatness and the reversal at the bottom, of the U, so that could be modeled by a second-order polynomial (fib + ,31Time 132Time2), and so on. This is just a general starting point for generating intuitions about the appropriate polynomial order for a particular data shape. There are a few different; more formal approaches and it is probably best to consider all of them without being too doctrinaire about any of them. A statistical ap a simple proach is to include only and all of the polynomialoirderc that improve model fit. Following this approach, you could start with ' - linear Level I model, then add a quadratic term and test whether it improves model fit, then a cubic term, and so on, until the additions no longer improve model fit. This approach has the advantage of statistical rigor. but it can lead to the inclusion of uninterpretable effects. A theoretical approach takes the complementary view: the model shook include only those terms for which the experimenter predicted an effect. approach is guaranteed to produce only interpretable results because °nil-predicted effects would be tested, but it can miss important unpredicted effects if the model does not adequately capture the data. One way to combine these two approaches •is to use the statistical •approach to define the Level 1 model and the theoretical app pre icted that some I • manipulations. For example, if an eN-roach to constrain which of the Level 2 d mo els will have effects •of mci, • perimenter d' nampulation would produce a simple baseline shift in some •complex behavior, then the overall (Level •1) data shape the Level 2 model of the intercer might require a high-order  could be i Polynom' 'al, but the term. included only ctohndiLtion (i.e., experimental manip-ulation) effect 
It is also useful to keep practical considerations in mind. Most data shapes can be captured with 4th-order or lower pohrnomials and lliQil y n the quadratic be o (2nd-order) become progressively 
more difficult 'u 
