
Time course data, 
ioriost, clear if we examine the first, few function: head(affect.subset) Film N.A.1 NA2 Neutral 2 4 Neutral 4 Neutral 2 1 Neutral 0 2 4 Neutral 13 13 Sad 1 2 
1 
3 
study maps /naps maps maps maps maps 
5 
6 
17 rows of I he (1Wifi. frame using thP head 
This "wide" data format is convenient for some analyses, sudi as a p.iirPri-.;ainples t-test, but for many analyses, including repeated measures ANOVA dgrowth curve analysis, and for plotting with ggplot2, the data aced to be rearranged into a long (or unzvariate) format. In a long format, each row corresponds to a single observation and the outcome data are all in one column as opposed to two or more columns corresponding to measurement occasions). 
This essentially means stacking the values in the NA and NA2 columns (hence the term long format), creating a new variable that will identify whether the value came from NA1 or NA2, and repeating the appropriate values from the other columns (Study and Film). 
This can be done manually. but the function melt from the reshape2 package provides a powerful and easy-to-use interface for doing this conversion. 
The syntax of the melt function makes the distinction between two kinds of variables: • id variables: information that identifies the observation. such as Subject. Time, Condition, etc. These are separate columns in the original data and will remain separate columns. • measure variables: measurement values, such as reaction times. negative affect scores, etc. These are separate columns in the original data and will be converted into a new id variable consisting of the column names and a value column consisting of the values. The melt function takes a data frame (it also works 011 arrays and lists, hut only •the data frame version is relevant for our purpose's), a list of id variables. and a list of measure variables. If only the id or only the measure variables dre specified, all other columns will be assumed to correspond to the other cpategory Here is how to use melt to convert the affect . subset data frame from wide to long format specifying that Study and Film are the id variables and NM and NA2 are the measure variables: <- melt(affect.subset, id=c("Study","Film"), affect . melt > umm "NA2")) Yaffect.melt) measure=c("NA1", sar 
